This document describes ThunderTine, an extension ("Add-On") to Mozilla
Thunderbird, a mailer under the Mozilla Public Licence (MPL) which is 
compatible to General Public Licence (GPL). The goal is synchronisation with
Tine 2.0 groupware, which is also open source (AGPL), using the Microsoft
ActiveSync protocol. 

LEGAL NOTICE

According to Microsoft their protocol "may be covered by patents". If so they
are valid in US only. If you intend to use this extension in USA you should be
aware of the conditions of patent law, especially if you plan to use it for
commercial reasons. 

Due to the patent law issue ThunderTine is licenced under GPL v2 ONLY. I have
no idea how later versions of GPL are affected by patents. All I know is that
later versions try to cover these questions, too. 

FEATURES

By now ThunderTine syncs one address book with Tine 2.0, either with a virtual
contacts folder inside tine (which is made for dumb device) or with a selected
folder (if you tell ThunderTine to pretend to be a iPhone). 

There's no calender and tasks synchronisation by the time of writing.

INSTALL

For users: Download ttine.xpi and point your Thunderbird Add-On installer to
the file. Restart Thunderbird and configure ThunderTine through its preferences
dialog. 

For developers: The xpi file is just a regular zip file. It contents the folder
structure as you can see in SVN. To work with the sources the fastest track is
installing the xpi first and then go to your thunderbird profile folder and 
delete all files below extensions/thundertine@santa.noel. Now put all files
from SVN into that folder. After a restart Thunderbird is working with the
sources, not the xpi anymore. 

DEVELOPER HINTS

ThunderTine is 100% javascript. It makes use of additions that are related to
Mozilla software but for experienced javascript developers it should be
understandable. I myself am not a javascript specialist. 

Look at the folder structure. Inside content the actual program files resident.
In defaults you can find the default values for Thunderbird's registry. Locale
is self-explanatory and skin holds the files for the user interface. 

If you're working with linux (and MacOS X probably) you can use build.sh to create a xpi
file from the sources. It will make the necessary changes to chrome.manifest
and pack the rest into a jar which will find itself in folder chrome. All this
will be inside a (new) ttine.xpi. 

HISTORY

0.1     Initial  Version: Sync contacts between Thunderbird and Tine 2.0
