



                      TINE 2.0 PRIVACY POLICY
                    Version 2, 28 November 2009
         
          
Tine 2.0 takes privacy seriously.  According to our key principles of
openness, freedom, transparency and quality, privacy is in fact a core
component and motivation behind the Tine 2.0 software. 

In Contrast to many other web services where using the software is paid
by the disposal of personal information and the abundance of privacy the
Tine 2.0 open source software gives back freedom and privacy to its
users.

In the following privacy policy we explain how Tine 2.0 may impact its
users privacy and discuss topics to consider from administrative side to
ensure and enhance the users privacy. 


SECTION I: DATA STORAGE

(a) Related Software Products
 Tine 2.0 is a software which runs in conjunction with various related
software products such as Web-Servers, Database-Servers, Directory-
Servers, SMTP- and IMAP-Servers and others.  All these related software
products may store personal and sensitive data which could impact the
privacy of Tine 2.0 users in various ways. In first place the logfiles
of these related software products must be considered, as they may
contain personal or confidential data. For further impacts on the users
privacy the user manuals of the related software products have to be
consulted.

(b) Database
 Tine 2.0 stores almost any information in the configured databases.
These databases contain personal and confidential data. As such these
databases are to be protected against any form of unauthorized access.
More details about securing the database can be found in the vendors
users manual.

(c) Session Files
 Tine 2.0 stores personal information about the user (username,
fullname, connection IP-Address etc.) in the users session file of the
web-server. These session files have to be protected against any form of
unauthorized access. In the Tine 2.0 setup process the path where this
session files are saved can be configured.

(d) Caches
 Tine 2.0 maintains caches to improve the performance of the software.
These caches may contain sensitive or personal data.  Therefore the
caches have to be protected against unauthorized access in any form. In
the Tine 2.0 setup process the path where cache files are saved can be
configured.

(e) Logfiles
 Tine 2.0 is capable to write logfiles containing information of
operation in different levels. Depending on the level this information
may contain sensitive or personal data.  This is particularly the case
for the log levels DEBUG and INFO.  Therefore the logfiles have to be
protected against unauthorized access in any form.  In the Tine 2.0
setup process the path where logfiles are saved and the log level can be
configured.

(f) Error Messages
 If Tine 2.0 detects an exceptional state of the software, informations
about the exceptional state are reported in the logfiles and to the
user. This information contain a so called 'stack trace' of the point
where the exceptional state got detected. This stack traces are
extremely useful to track the source of the exceptional state, e.g. bugs
or misconfigurations of the system, but also may contain sensitive or
personal data of the current user.  To suppress the stack traces in the
error messages the configuration 'suppressExceptionTraces' can be set in
the installations config.inc.php.

(g) User Client Session Data
 The Tine 2.0 client software is a javascript software which runs in the
browser of the user. During a users session, this client holds various
caches and local stores of data objects which may contain personal or
sensitive data. Therefore the computer system the client software runs
on is to be protected against unauthorized access in any form.
Destruction of these client side data should take place at quitting time
of the user agent. Details of this destruction process are subject of
the particular privacy policies of the clients user agent. 


SECTION II: DATA TRANSFER WITH VENDORS SERVICES

(a) Bug Reports
 If Tine 2.0 detects an exceptional state of the software, informations
about the exceptional state are reported to the user containing a "Bug
Reporting Form". In this form the user can add a description of what he
did when the error occurred and moreover add contact information for
further inquiries. Submissions of this form are send as 'Bug Reports' to
the software vendor and are extremely useful to find bugs and exception
sources within the software. The permission to send Bug Reports can be
set as a 'Role Right' in the Tine 2.0 Role Administration module.
Additionally to the description and optional contact information, these
Bug Reports contain the version of the Tine 2.0 installation and, if
configured, the stack trace of the exceptional state as well as
informations about the request and response of the transaction which
lead to the exceptional state. Due to the nature of data transmission,
the referrer, user agent and IP address of the user are included in the
submission.

(b) Version Checks
 Tine 2.0 offers the possibility to check for updates and inform the
user if new versions or critical updates of the software are available.
The permission to check for new versions can be set as 'Role Right' in
the Tine 2.0 Role Administration module. The request for new versions
contain the current version of the Tine 2.0 installation.  Due to the
nature of data transmission, the referrer, user agent and IP address of
the user are included in the request.

(c) Survey Offerings
 To consequently improve the usability of the Tine 2.0 the software
vendor offers user surveys where users directly can give feedback and
help to improve the software to their own needs. To check if a new
survey for participation is available a request to a foreign website has
to be made. To suppress this request, the configuration 'denySurveys'
can be set in the  config.inc.php config file. Due to the nature of data
transmission, the referrer, user agent and IP address of the user are
included in the request.

(d) Usage of Transfered Data
 The Tine 2.0 software vendor process and stores transmitted data
exclusively for the purpose of analyzing and resolving technical
problems as well as gaining statistical data about the propagation of
the Tine 2.0 software suite. In rare cases transmitted bug reports might
contain personal or sensitive data according to paragraph (a). The
software vendor guarantees to handle such data with absolute discretion
and never to systematically collect, analyze or publish such data. Bug
reports data are kept in an access controlled and private database and
deleted as soon as the technical problem is resolved. 


SECTION III: DATA TRANSFER WITH THRID PARTY SERVICES

(a) Third Party Mail Systems
 The Tine 2.0 email client can be configured to access mail systems of
third party providers. Tine 2.0 has no influence of the data handling
and privacy implications related to the policies of the third party
service vendors. In addition to the personal or sensitive data stored
and exchanged with the third party service connections to third party
mail services also contain the IP-Address of the Tine 2.0 server system
or upstream security system due to the nature of data transmission. The
permission for users to define their own mail services, including third
party services, can be set as a 'Role Right' in the Tine 2.0 Role
Administration module. Considerations about the permission to connect
third party mail systems should imply administrative tasks to ensure
encrypted network communication to these systems.

(b) Using of ActiveSync services
 Tine 2.0 offers an ActiveSync module for data synchronization with
mobile devices. The ActiveSync module respects access rights and user
data grants of the user the device authenticates for. Tine 2.0 has no
influence of the data handling and privacy implications of the
ActiveSync clients. The permission to use the ActiveSync service can be
set as a 'Role Right' in the Tine 2.0 Role Administration module.
Considerations about the permission to synchronize data using the
ActiveSync service should imply administrative tasks to ensure encrypted
network communication between the related systems.

(c) Third Party Service Consumers
 Tine 2.0 comes with a variety of interfaces and API's, allowing the
exchange of data with authenticated users. Those interfaces and API's
respects access rights and user data grants of the user the service
consumer is authenticated for. Tine 2.0 has no influence of the data
handling and privacy implications of third party service consumers.
Considerations about offering the Tine 2.0 service in a public network
should imply administrative tasks to ensure encrypted network
communication between all related systems.

(d) OpenStreeMap.org services
 Tine 2.0 uses a number of services offered by openStreetMap.org.
OpenStreetMap.org is a community dedicated to mapping and geolocation
related topics. As of the nature of web-services, Tine 2.0 needs to
send personal data to openstreetmap.org as input parameters for retrieving 
maps or geolocations. To disable communications and features based on
this services, you need to set the configuration option 'mapPanel' to 
false in the installations config.inc.php.
