


                    TINE 2.0 RELEASENOTES
                    
Release:     Koriander (2014.09)
Last change: 2015-01-09

1 Enhanced CalDAV connection
1.1 Connection to Apple Calendar application
Tine 2.0 now supports all features of the calendar application implemented in MAC OS X. These include support for attachments on events, sharing calendars and management of access rights.
1.2 Connection to external calendars
External calendar in ICS format can now be imported and updated regularly.
1.3 Creating new calendars via CalDAV
Users of CalDAV programs can now create new calendar directly from the CalDAV program.
In the previous version of Tine 2.0 new calendars had to be created via the Tine 2.0 web interface.
1.4 External invitations
Support for external invitations by e-mail has been improved. Tine 2.0 now supports the processing of invitations that go to multiple users in a Tine 2.0 installation.
In the previous version of Tine 2.0, each user has an own invitation and could not make out what other participants were invited.
1.5 Improvements to Thunderbird CalDAV client (Lightning)
Users of the Thunderbird add-on Lightning now have the option to hide duplicate appointments, which result from the use of shared folders.

2 Improvements to the CRM module
In the overview of the CRM edit dialogue a column "organizer" was added
New field "resubmission" inserted
The field "expected sales" is shown as currency field with separators of 1000 and currency symbol
Column for "Planned end" was added to lead overview
Leads whose resubmission date (new feature) or "Planned end date" have expired and are still open are marked red in the lead overview
The probability of a lead is shown in the lead overview as beam and with colour indexing (such as the percentage of a task in the task list).

3 Publication of files
Tine 2.0 now allows the publishing of files. Files can be published from the file manager. Therefore Tine 2.0 creates download URLs, which can be accessed without authentication. The validity of the download URLs can be limited.

4 Enhanced access rights for favorites
The visibility of common favorites can be defined.
In the previous version of Tine 2.0 common favorites were always visible to all users.
Now you can specify for each joint favorites which users can see the favorite, edit or delete them.

5 Secretaries mode
The so-called secretaries mode allows users to take on the role of another user without knowing the credentials of this user. With the new role entries in Tine 2.0 can then be modified, only the access to e-mails is not possible.
The possibility of role reversal must be configured separately in the admin area for each role change.

6 New calendar functions
6.1 Cut & Paste for appointments
Appointments can now be cut out from the context menu, and be pasted to a new date again. Technically it is the moving of an appointment.
6.2 Smart appointment mode
If you select the calendars of several users and set a new date, the selected users are invited automatically.
6.3 Notifications of schedule changes
When a user updates an appointment, he can now suppress the notification that otherwise would be sent to the other participants.
6.4 Simplified e-mail distribution
It is now very easy to send an e-mail to individual participants from the appointment dialogue. This is possible from the context menu of the individual participant.

7 Enhanced export of addresses
Tine 2.0 now supports the export of addresses as mail merge. The exported data can now be grouped according to certain criteria (for example, name of organization).
In addition, the tags of an address will not be summarized in a column, but moved to its own columns.

8 Directory / resource grouping
directory or resources are grouped automatically when they are created as a subfolder For example, the directory "Test/Unterordner/Ordner1" and "Test/Unterordner/Ordner2" are displayed in the frontend

Hauptordner
- Unterordner
-- Ordner1
-- Ordner2
Ordner

9 Enhancement Sales module
The contract management has been thoroughly revised and expanded
The customer management has been thoroughly revised and expanded

10 Performance improvements
There were again optimized a lot of requests. Thus, the response time for requests to the Tine 2.0 server was extremely improved in many places, also resource consumption was reduced. This enables more users on comparable hardware.
The greatest improvements have taken place in the calendar application and the connection of external CalDAV and ActiveSync programs. Certain CalDAV requests could be reduced to 1 second in large environments (<1000 users) (coming from 30 seconds).

11 Extended user import
Importing group memberships
Importing extended attributes (eg. home directory, logon script)

12 AD/LDAP connection enhanced
Inconsistent Samba 4 Active Directory database connections avoided
Improved performance of LDAP and Active Directory connection

13 Behaviour on disabled user accounts
The logout of deactivated or expired user accounts has been accelerated. Tine 2.0 now checks for each request, whether a user account has already expired or been disabled.
In the previous version of Tine 2.0, this review took place only during the registration. Registered users could therefore continue to access the system, even though the account was already disabled or expired.
By admin configurable e-mail notifications to the user if the user has been deactivated and therefore fails the login.

14 Miscellaneous
E-mail: support of winmail.dat attachments
Notes can be deleted
Better visibility of tags
